.TH WW 1 "2024" "ww 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ww \- Universal Wayland wallpaper setter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ww
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] <\fIfile\fR|\fIdirectory\fR|\fIcolor\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ww
is a fast wallpaper setter for Wayland compositors with support for images, videos, slideshows, and smooth transitions.
Supports multiple image formats (PNG, JPEG, WebP, TIFF, JXL, BMP, TGA, PNM, Farbfeld) and animated wallpapers (GIF, MP4, WebM).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fINAME\fR"
Set wallpaper for specific output. Use \fB\-\-list\-outputs\fR to see available outputs.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mode " \fIMODE\fR"
Scaling mode: \fBfit\fR, \fBfill\fR, \fBstretch\fR, \fBcenter\fR, \fBtile\fR (default: fit)
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color " \fI#RRGGBB\fR"
Solid color background or letterbox color
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-loop
Loop animated wallpapers (GIF/video)
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-slideshow
Slideshow mode (multiple files)
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " \fISECONDS\fR"
Slideshow interval in seconds (default: 300)
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-random
Random slideshow order
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
Scan directories recursively
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-transition " \fITYPE\fR"
Transition effect (default: fade)
.RS
.PP
\fBBasic:\fR none, fade
.PP
\fBSlide:\fR slide-left, slide-right, slide-up, slide-down
.PP
\fBZoom:\fR zoom-in, zoom-out
.PP
\fBCircle:\fR circle-open, circle-close
.PP
\fBWipe:\fR wipe-left, wipe-right, wipe-up, wipe-down
.PP
\fBEffects:\fR dissolve, pixelate
.RE
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-duration " \fISECONDS\fR"
Transition duration in seconds (default: 1.0)
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fps " \fIFPS\fR"
Transition frame rate (default: 30, max: 240)
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-daemon
Run in background and restore wallpapers from cache
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-list\-outputs
List available outputs
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message
.SH SCALING MODES
.TP
.B fit
Scale to fit with letterboxing (preserves aspect ratio, default)
.TP
.B fill
Scale to fill, crop if needed (preserves aspect ratio)
.TP
.B stretch
Stretch to fill, ignore aspect ratio
.TP
.B center
No scaling, center image
.TP
.B tile
Repeat image to fill screen
.SH TRANSITIONS
Circle transitions (circle-open, circle-close) appear from random positions on the screen with each transition, creating dynamic visual effects.
.PP
All transitions support configurable duration and frame rate (up to 240 FPS for high refresh rate displays).
.SH DAEMON MODE
When run with \fB\-\-daemon\fR, ww forks to the background and saves wallpaper state to \fI~/.cache/ww/<output-name>\fR.
On subsequent daemon starts, wallpapers are automatically restored from cache.
.PP
This is useful for auto-starting wallpapers on compositor launch. Add to your compositor config:
.PP
.RS
exec-once = ww --daemon
.RE
.PP
Wallpapers set normally (without --daemon) are still cached and can be restored later.
.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
.TP
.B Static Images
PNG, JPEG, WebP, TIFF/TIF, JPEG XL (JXL), BMP, TGA, PNM/PBM/PGM/PPM, Farbfeld
.TP
.B Animated
GIF, MP4, WebM, Animated WebP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Set wallpaper on all outputs:
.B ww
wallpaper.png
.TP
Set wallpaper on specific output:
.B ww
\-o DP-1 wallpaper.jpg
.TP
Set with fill mode:
.B ww
\-m fill wallpaper.jpg
.TP
Set with letterbox color:
.B ww
\-m center \-c '#282828' logo.png
.TP
Set solid color:
.B ww
\-\-color '#FF5733'
.TP
Loop video wallpaper:
.B ww
\-\-loop video.mp4
.TP
Basic slideshow:
.B ww
\-S image1.jpg image2.png image3.webp
.TP
Slideshow with custom interval:
.B ww
\-S \-i 60 ~/wallpapers/*.jpg
.TP
Random slideshow:
.B ww
\-S \-r \-i 120 ~/wallpapers/*.png
.TP
Recursive directory scan:
.B ww
\-S \-R ~/wallpapers/
.TP
Slideshow with fade transition:
.B ww
\-S \-t fade \-d 2.0 ~/wallpapers/*.png
.TP
Ultra-smooth 240 FPS transitions:
.B ww
\-S \-t circle-open \-d 2.0 \-f 240 ~/wallpapers/*.jpg
.TP
Run as daemon:
.B ww
\-\-daemon
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/ww/<output-name>
Cache files storing wallpaper configuration per output
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
Wayland display socket (required)
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Base directory for cache files (default: ~/.cache)
.SH COMPOSITOR SUPPORT
Works with wlroots-based compositors that implement \fBwlr-layer-shell-unstable-v1\fR protocol.
.PP
Tested compositors: Sway, Hyprland, River, Wayfire
.SH PERFORMANCE
Transitions use bicubic interpolation for high-quality scaling. CPU usage at 60 FPS:
.PP
.RS
1080p: ~5-10%
.br
1600p: ~10-15%
.br
4K: ~40-50%
.RE
.PP
Adjust FPS with \fB-f\fR flag to balance smoothness and performance.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/jeebuscrossaint/ww/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by jeebuscrossaint
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swaybg (1),
.BR mpvpaper (1),
.BR swww (1)
